---
aliases:
  - "The Conundrum of Enforceability of Blockchain Arbitration: Learnings from Kleros"
tags: []
title: "The Conundrum of Enforceability of Blockchain Arbitration: Learnings from Kleros"
authors:
  - mappingadr
year: 2024
doi: ""
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/X4HLLG37
bibliography:
  - lib
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
[This article has been authored by Varda Saxena & Harshitha Swarna, fourth-year law students at JGLS, Sonipat] Keywords: Kleros, Smart Contracts, Blockchain Arbitration, Arbitration, Blockchain Arbitral Order. Introduction A blockchain is a decentralised digital ledger of accounts maintained by its users rather than by a third party and stored on a network of computers. Blockchain transactions are completely transparent and do not have a central data storage administrator. This ensures the validity and security of the data fed to it since every transaction is encrypted and so can be traced. Smart contracts on the blockchain allow for the self-enforcement of automated legal obligations without the involvement of third-party intermediaries. As it stands, the problem faced by traditional dispute resolution mechanisms is that they cannot effectively authenticate large numbers of cross-border small-value claims. To alleviate this problem, arbitrators have introduced the concept of ‘blockchain arbitration’, which seeks to utilise blockchain technology to authenticate smart contracts and automate their execution by invoking the arbitration clause contained within the contract in the case of a dispute. This harmonious interaction between blockchain technology and arbitration seeks to fulfil the speedy, efficient, and cost-effective resolution of disputes. However, the legal recognition and enforceability of blockchain arbitration is contentious and has been discussed across various jurisdictions worldwide. Therefore, through this article, the authors argue that reading the Kleros precedent with the principle of ex aequo et bono into the Indian legal framework under Section 28 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act could be a possible remedy for solving the procedural hurdles which might be encountered in a blockchain arbitration. The Methodologies of Blockchain Arbitration The involvement of intermediaries in smart contracts might hinder the immutability and automated nature of these contracts. Hence, if intermediaries would indulge in contract enforcement, such as in arbitration or judicial intervention, it might render the basis of these contracts obsolete. However, this can be avoided if the software is used for the automation of only deterministic clauses of an agreement. All non-trivial transactions might have some non-deterministic clauses, such as good faith and reasonableness, which cannot be incorporated through languages like Solidity unless technological progress allows artificial intelligence to learn human reasoning. Hence, this makes the role of human arbitrators essential for the application of legal principles. In order to inculcate the applicability of arbitration in smart contracts and blockchain-based transactions, clause-based consequences can be referred to an Oracle.[1] For example, if a person buys a flight ticket, which is encoded in a smart contract, it will have encoded data regarding the time of arrival and departure, and the feedback received from an Oracle can determine the chain of events and itinerary compliance. Hence, if the feedback received prompts towards a delay or flight cancellation, compensation could be automatically directed to the traveller’s account. This mechanism can also be utilised while conducting arbitration through an Oracle. When a clause postulates the deferring of a dispute to the arbitrator, the determination of the dispute could be done, and the award can be uploaded on an Oracle. Hence, the external input provided by Oracle will stimulate the software script to enforce the outcome of the award. This would also avoid extra litigation and decrease judicial burden as the execution of awards would be automated. In the case of M/s Religare Finvest Limited v. Ranjit Singh Chouhan, the High Court of Delhi relied on the decision delivered in Daelim Industrial Co. Ltd. v. Numaligarh Refinery Ltd while stating that the territorial jurisdiction for the execution of an award is determined by the place where the property or money is located as the Award itself is executable as a decree. Similarly, many other precedents have reflected the same view. However, with the adoption of an Oracle-based arbitration mechanism, such instances could be resolved without hassle and time-lapse, thus fulfilling the aim of the arbitration laws as well, which is the speedy redressal of conflict. For further discussion on risks associated with Oracle, Alexander Egberts work helps understand how placing reliance on one Oracle could also pose a credibility issue alongside security risks stemming from a singular point of failure. Such a procedure would also uphold the already embedded ‘routine escrow mechanisms’ first theorised by Satoshi Nakamoto and could be utilised in a variety of business transactions as the translation of clauses into codes progresses. This would also evolve the manner in which arbitral proceedings are conducted during the COVID-19 era. As the arbitral mechanisms evolve beyond the restrictive bitcoin protocols, it might also encourage legislative action. Hence, it might also help in developing a normative criterion for drafting arbitral Awards so that Oracles can facilitate the stimulation of a smart contract. Additionally, blockchain-based technologies like EOSIO40 and Mattereum have already created solutions for the inculcation of arbitration within smart contract execution protocols. The inclusion of arbitration mechanisms within the smart contract architecture might also cause issues related to the self-enforceability of arbitral awards. This is because automated execution might marginalise recognition procedures, which has already been noticed in bitcoin adjudication based on multi-signature addresses.[2] But this does not bolster the need to have highly restrictive regulations, as public policy would always mandate state-controlled recognition procedures to an extent. Further, there might also be other procedures that the state might follow, such as the deduction of money due to a smart contract being refunded ‘off-chain’. Hence, the usage of smart contracts for mediation would not mandate state control via technological means only. Another problem that arises is the incompatibility that exists with state-mandated arbitration frameworks. This incompatibility with conventional arbitration frameworks compounds in two ways: first, the decentralised, cryptographic mode of the arbitration agreement, and second, the lack of a seat of arbitration, given its distributed nature. However, a dystopian argument can be made regarding the automated asset circulation which could happen on technological platforms, rendering off-chain transaction reversal extremely complicated or impracticable. But such a case would only occur in an economy where smart contracts have gained paramountcy. The Carrera Report and the Standardisation […]
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->
