---
aliases:
  - "Ludovica Paseri. Cambridge Forum on AI: Law and Governance. 2025"
  - Examining epistemological challenges of large language models in law
tags: []
title: Examining epistemological challenges of large language models in law
authors:
  - Ludovica Paseri
  - Massimo Durante
year: 2025
journal: "Cambridge Forum on AI: Law and Governance"
doi: https://doi.org/10.1017/cfl.2024.7
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/L93ILGJ8
bibliography:
  - lib
pdf: /home/kjani/Downloads/Tech Law Reading/Paseri and Durante - 2025 - Examining epistemological challenges of large language models in law.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Large Language Models (LLMs) raises challenges that can be examined according to a normative and an epistemological approach. The normative approach, increasingly adopted by European institutions, identifies the pros and cons of technological advancement. Regarding LLMs, the main pros concern technological innovation, economic development and the achievement of social goals and values. The disadvantages mainly concern cases of risks and harms generated by means of LLMs. The epistemological approach examines how LLMs produce outputs, information, knowledge, and a representation of reality in ways that differ from those followed by human beings. To face the impact of LLMs, our paper contends that the epistemological approach should be examined as a priority: identifying risks and opportunities of LLMs also depends on considering how this form of artificial intelligence works from an epistemological point of view. To this end, our analysis compares the epistemology of LLMs with that of law, in order to highlight at least five issues in terms of: (i) qualification; (ii) reliability; (iii) pluralism and novelty; (iv) technological dependence and (v) relation to truth and accuracy. The epistemological analysis of these issues, preliminary to the normative one, lays the foundations to better frame challenges and opportunities arising from the use of LLMs.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->
